SAFETY DATA SHEET 

Version 8.6 
Revision Date 06/28/2023 
Print Date 06/22/2024 

SECTION 1: Identification of the substance/mixture and of the company/undertaking 

1.1  Product identifiers 

Product name 

:  Bromophenol blue indicator ACS,Reag. Ph Eur 

Product Number 
Catalogue No. 
Brand 
CAS-No. 

:  1.08122 
:  108122 
:  Millipore 
:  115-39-9 

1.2  Relevant identified uses of the substance or mixture and uses advised against 

Identified uses 

:  Reagent for analysis 

1.3  Details of the supplier of the safety data sheet 

Company 

Telephone 
Fax 

:  Sigma-Aldrich Inc. 
3050 SPRUCE ST 
ST. LOUIS MO  63103 
UNITED STATES 

:  +1 314 771-5765 
:  +1 800 325-5052 

1.4  Emergency telephone 

Emergency Phone # 

:  800-424-9300 CHEMTREC (USA) +1-703-
527-3887 CHEMTREC (International) 24 
Hours/day; 7 Days/week 

SECTION 2: Hazards identification 

2.1  Classification of the substance or mixture 

Not a hazardous substance or mixture. 

2.2  GHS Label elements, including precautionary statements 

No hazard pictogram, no signal word, no hazard statement(s), no precautionary 
statement(s) required 

2.3  Hazards not otherwise classified (HNOC) or not covered by GHS - none 

SECTION 3: Composition/information on ingredients 

3.1  Substances 
Formula 

Millipore - 1.08122 

:  C19H10Br4O5S 

The life science business of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany 
operates as MilliporeSigma in the US and Canada 

Page 1  of  8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Molecular weight 
CAS-No. 
EC-No. 

:  669.98 g/mol 
:  115-39-9 
:  204-086-2 

No components need to be disclosed according to the applicable regulations. 

SECTION 4: First aid measures 

4.1  Description of first-aid measures 

If inhaled 
After inhalation: fresh air. 

In case of skin contact 
In case of skin contact: Take off immediately all contaminated clothing. Rinse skin with 
water/ shower. 

In case of eye contact 
After eye contact: rinse out with plenty of water. Remove contact lenses. 

If swallowed 
After swallowing: make victim drink water (two glasses at most). Consult doctor if feeling 
unwell. 

4.2  Most important symptoms and effects, both acute and delayed 

The most important known symptoms and effects are described in the labelling (see section 
2.2) and/or in section 11 

4.3  Indication of any immediate medical attention and special treatment needed 

No data available 

SECTION 5: Firefighting measures 

5.1  Extinguishing media 

Suitable extinguishing media 
Water Foam Carbon dioxide (CO2) Dry powder 

Unsuitable extinguishing media 
For this substance/mixture no limitations of extinguishing agents are given. 

5.2  Special hazards arising from the substance or mixture 

Carbon oxides 
Sulfur oxides 
Hydrogen bromide gas 
Combustible. 
Fire may cause evolution of: 
Sulfur oxides, hydrogen bromide 
Development of hazardous combustion gases or vapours possible in the event of fire. 

5.3  Advice for firefighters 

In the event of fire, wear self-contained breathing apparatus. 

5.4  Further information 

Suppress (knock down) gases/vapors/mists with a water spray jet. Prevent fire 
extinguishing water from contaminating surface water or the ground water system. 

Millipore - 1.08122 

Page 2  of  8 

The life science business of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany 
operates as MilliporeSigma in the US and Canada 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 6: Accidental release measures 

6.1  Personal precautions, protective equipment and emergency procedures 

Advice for non-emergency personnel: Avoid inhalation of dusts. Evacuate the danger 
area, observe emergency procedures, consult an expert. 
For personal protection see section 8. 

6.2  Environmental precautions 

Do not let product enter drains. 

6.3  Methods and materials for containment and cleaning up 

Cover drains. Collect, bind, and pump off spills. Observe possible material restrictions 
(see sections 7 and 10). Take up dry. Dispose of properly. Clean up affected area. Avoid 
generation of dusts. 

6.4  Reference to other sections 

For disposal see section 13. 

SECTION 7: Handling and storage 

7.1  Precautions for safe handling 
For precautions see section 2.2. 

7.2  Conditions for safe storage, including any incompatibilities 

Storage conditions 
Tightly closed. Dry. 

Recommended storage temperature see product label.  

Storage class 
Storage class (TRGS 510): 11: Combustible Solids 

7.3  Specific end use(s) 

Apart from the uses mentioned in section 1.2 no other specific uses are stipulated 

SECTION 8: Exposure controls/personal protection 

8.1  Control parameters 

Ingredients with workplace control parameters 
Contains no substances with occupational exposure limit values. 

8.2  Exposure controls 

Appropriate engineering controls 
Change contaminated clothing. Wash hands after working with substance. 

Personal protective equipment 

Eye/face protection 
Use equipment for eye protection tested and approved under appropriate 
government standards such as NIOSH (US) or EN 166(EU). Safety glasses 

Millipore - 1.08122 

Page 3  of  8 

The life science business of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany 
operates as MilliporeSigma in the US and Canada 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Skin protection 
This recommendation applies only to the product stated in the safety data sheet, 
supplied by us and for the designated use. When dissolving in or mixing with other 
substances and under conditions deviating from those stated in EN374 please 
contact the supplier of CE-approved gloves (e.g. KCL GmbH, D-36124 Eichenzell, 
Internet: www.kcl.de). 
Full contact 
Material: Nitrile rubber 
Minimum layer thickness: 0.11 mm 
Break through time: 480 min 
Material tested:KCL 741 Dermatril® L 

This recommendation applies only to the product stated in the safety data sheet, 
supplied by us and for the designated use. When dissolving in or mixing with other 
substances and under conditions deviating from those stated in EN374 please 
contact the supplier of CE-approved gloves (e.g. KCL GmbH, D-36124 Eichenzell, 
Internet: www.kcl.de). 
Splash contact 
Material: Nitrile rubber 
Minimum layer thickness: 0.11 mm 
Break through time: 480 min 
Material tested:KCL 741 Dermatril® L 

Respiratory protection 
Recommended Filter type: Filter type P1 
The entrepeneur has to ensure that maintenance, cleaning and testing of respiratory 
protective devices are carried out according to the instructions of the producer. 
These measures have to be properly documented. 
required when dusts are generated. 
Our recommendations on filtering respiratory protection are based on the following 
standards: DIN EN 143, DIN 14387 and other accompanying standards relating to 
the used respiratory protection system. 

Control of environmental exposure 
Do not let product enter drains. 

SECTION 9: Physical and chemical properties 

9.1  Information on basic physical and chemical properties 

a)  Appearance 

Form: solid 
Color: pink, to, red brown 

b)  Odor 

phenol-like 

c)  Odor Threshold 

No data available 

d)  pH 

e)  Melting 

point/freezing point 

f) 

Initial boiling point 
and boiling range 

Millipore - 1.08122 

No data available 

Melting point/range: 273 °C (523 °F) - Decomposition 

No data available 

Page 4  of  8 

The life science business of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany 
operates as MilliporeSigma in the US and Canada 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
g)  Flash point 

 ()No data available 

h)  Evaporation rate 

No data available 

i)  Flammability (solid, 

No data available 

gas) 

j)  Upper/lower 

No data available 

flammability or 
explosive limits 

k)  Vapor pressure 

No data available 

l)  Vapor density 

No data available 

m)  Density 

No data available 

Relative density 

No data available 

n)  Water solubility 

practically insoluble 

o)  Partition coefficient: 
n-octanol/water 

p)  Autoignition 
temperature 

log Pow: ca.6.77 - Potential bioaccumulation 

No data available 

q)  Decomposition 

No data available 

temperature 

r)  Viscosity 

No data available 

s)  Explosive properties  No data available 

t)  Oxidizing properties  No data available 

9.2  Other safety information 

Bulk density 

ca.730 kg/m3 

SECTION 10: Stability and reactivity 

10.1  Reactivity 

The following applies in general to flammable organic substances and mixtures: in 
correspondingly fine distribution, when whirled up a dust explosion potential may generally 
be assumed. 

10.2  Chemical stability 

The product is chemically stable under standard ambient conditions (room temperature) . 

10.3  Possibility of hazardous reactions 
Violent reactions possible with: 
Strong oxidizing agents 

10.4  Conditions to avoid 

Heat. 
no information available 

10.5  Incompatible materials 

No data available 

Millipore - 1.08122 

The life science business of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany 
operates as MilliporeSigma in the US and Canada 

Page 5  of  8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.6  Hazardous decomposition products 
In the event of fire: see section 5 

SECTION 11: Toxicological information 

11.1  Information on toxicological effects 

Acute toxicity 
Oral: No data available 
Inhalation: No data available 
Dermal: No data available 
No data available 

Skin corrosion/irritation 
Remarks: No data available 

Serious eye damage/eye irritation 
Remarks: No data available 

Respiratory or skin sensitization 
No data available 

Germ cell mutagenicity 
Result: Equivocal evidence. 
Remarks: Histidine reversion (Ames) 

Carcinogenicity 

IARC: 

NTP: 

No ingredient of this product present at levels greater than or equal to 0.1% is 
identified as probable, possible or confirmed human carcinogen by IARC. 

No ingredient of this product present at levels greater than or equal to 0.1% is 
identified as a known or anticipated carcinogen by NTP. 

OSHA: 

No component of this product present at levels greater than or equal to 0.1% is 
on OSHA’s list of regulated carcinogens. 

Reproductive toxicity 
No data available 

Specific target organ toxicity - single exposure 
No data available 

Specific target organ toxicity - repeated exposure 
No data available 

Aspiration hazard 
No data available 

11.2  Additional Information 

To the best of our knowledge, the chemical, physical, and toxicological properties have not 
been thoroughly investigated. 

Millipore - 1.08122 

Page 6  of  8 

The life science business of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany 
operates as MilliporeSigma in the US and Canada 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 12: Ecological information 

12.1  Toxicity 

No data available 

12.2  Persistence and degradability 

No data available 

12.3  Bioaccumulative potential 

No data available 

12.4  Mobility in soil 

No data available 

12.5  Results of PBT and vPvB assessment 

PBT/vPvB assessment not available as chemical safety assessment not required/not 
conducted 

12.6  Endocrine disrupting properties 

No data available 

12.7 Other adverse effects 
No data available 

SECTION 13: Disposal considerations 

13.1  Waste treatment methods 

Product 
Waste material must be disposed of in accordance with the national and local regulations. 
Leave chemicals in original containers. No mixing with other waste. Handle uncleaned 
containers like the product itself.  

SECTION 14: Transport information 

DOT (US) 
Not dangerous goods 

IMDG 
Not dangerous goods 

IATA 
Not dangerous goods 

Further information 
Not classified as dangerous in the meaning of transport regulations. 

SECTION 15: Regulatory information 

Millipore - 1.08122 

Page 7  of  8 

The life science business of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany 
operates as MilliporeSigma in the US and Canada 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SARA 302 Components 
This material does not contain any components with a section 302 EHS TPQ. 

SARA 313 Components 
This material does not contain any chemical components with known CAS numbers that 
exceed the threshold (De Minimis) reporting levels established by SARA Title III, Section 
313. 

Massachusetts Right To Know Components 
No components are subject to the Massachusetts Right to Know Act. 

SECTION 16: Other information 

Further information 
The above information is believed to be correct but does not purport to be all inclusive 
and shall be used only as a guide. The information in this document is based on the 
present state of our knowledge and is applicable to the product with regard to 
appropriate safety precautions. It does not represent any guarantee of the properties of 
the product. Sigma-Aldrich Corporation and its Affiliates shall not be held liable for any 
damage resulting from handling or from contact with the above product. See 
www.sigma-aldrich.com and/or the reverse side of invoice or packing slip for additional 
terms and conditions of sale. 

Copyright 2020 Sigma-Aldrich Co. LLC. License granted to make unlimited paper copies 
for internal use only. 
The branding on the header and/or footer of this document may temporarily not visually 
match the product purchased as we transition our branding. However, all of the 
information in the document regarding the product remains unchanged and matches the 
product ordered. For further information please contact mlsbranding@sial.com. 
Version: 8.6 

Revision Date: 06/28/2023 

Print Date: 06/22/2024 

Millipore - 1.08122 

Page 8  of  8 

The life science business of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany 
operates as MilliporeSigma in the US and Canada 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
